---
title: Worldwide AGPL Exception for Modifications for the Purposes of
  Flood Control, Security, and CAPTCHA Software Integration
---

**Notice: This is a *draft* of the MFEK AGPL security exception v1.0.
Its text is not yet final and may change significantly, pending
community feedback. The repository will not be force pushed after
`1fb598d`, however, so if it already looks fine to you, feel free to use
it.**

# Preamble

I, \[Author’s Name\], the author of the program entitled \[Program’s
Name\] (the “Program”), hereby grant the following exception on a
worldwide, irrevocable, perpetual and unlimited basis for the said
Program, which is licensed under the GNU Affero General Public License,
version 3, or any later version (the “AGPL”) as published by the Free
Software Foundation. This Exception is intended to grant additional
permissions to all users who incorporate flood control, security, or
CAPTCHA software (the “Exempted Software”) into the AGPL-licensed
software (the “Program”).

By exercising the Exception, you agree to comply with the terms and
conditions below:

# 1. Definitions:

1.  “Flood Control” refers to any software or measures designed to
    detect, mitigate, or prevent the excessive, repeated, or automated
    submission of data or requests, typically with the intent to disrupt
    the normal operation or functionality of a system or network.

2.  “Security” refers to any software or measures designed to protect
    computer systems, networks, and their users from unauthorized
    access, exploitation, or harm, including but not limited to the
    confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information and
    resources.

3.  “CAPTCHA” (Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers
    and Humans Apart) refers to any software or measures designed to
    differentiate between human users and automated software, such as
    bots or scripts, by presenting tasks or challenges that are easily
    solvable by humans but difficult for machines to accomplish.

4.  “Exempted Software” refers to any software written by end users that
    has as its primary purpose flood control, security, or functioning
    as a CAPTCHA.

5.  “Share-Alike Provisions” refers to the sections of the AGPL that
    require derivative works to be distributed under the same license
    terms.

# 2. Grant of Exception:

1.  If you incorporate the Exempted Software into the Program, you may,
    at your option, exclude the Exempted Software from the Share-Alike
    Provisions of the AGPL.

2.  This Exception grants you the right to distribute, copy, and modify
    the Exempted Software and the Program, without the requirement to
    follow the Share-Alike Provisions concerning the Exempted Software.

3.  This Exception does not grant you any additional rights or
    permissions beyond those described in this document.

# 3. Conditions:

1.  The Exception applies only to the Exempted Software incorporated
    into the Program and does not extend to any other software or
    component of the Program.

2.  You must include a copy of this Exception with the Program’s source
    code and in any documentation accompanying the Program or the
    Exempted Software.

3.  If you modify the Exempted Software, the Exception shall only apply
    to the modifications if they maintain the primary purpose of flood
    control, security, or functioning as a CAPTCHA.

# 4. Termination:

1.  If you fail to comply with the terms and conditions of this
    Exception, it will automatically terminate and you will lose the
    rights granted by this Exception.

2.  If you distribute the Exempted Software without this Exception, or
    if you remove this Exception from the Program, you will no longer
    have the rights granted by this Exception.

# 5. Disclaimer of Warranty and Limitation of Liability:

1.  This Exception is provided “as is” without warranty of any kind,
    either expressed or implied, including, but not limited to, the
    implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular
    purpose.

2.  In no event shall the authors or copyright holders of the Exception
    be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability, whether in an
    action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of, or in
    connection with the Exception or the use or other dealings in the
    Exception.

# 6. Governing Law:

1.  This Exception shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance
    with the laws of the jurisdiction in which the original licensors of
    the AGPL-licensed software reside, without regard to its conflict of
    law provisions.

2.  Any disputes arising from this Exception shall be subject to the
    exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the jurisdiction in which
    the original licensors of the AGPL-licensed software reside.

# 7. How to Apply This Exception to Your Programs

Attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach them
to the start of each source file to most effectively state the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and
a pointer to where the full notice is found.

  y@default@parindent my@default@parskip

   
In addition, be sure to provide a way for users to access the source
code of your software, especially if it can interact with users remotely
through a computer network. This could be done, for example, through a
"Source" link in the interface of your web application.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary. For more information on this, and how to apply and follow the
GNU AGPL and this Exception, see \<<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>\> and
\<<https://mfek.org/AGPL-Flood-Exception>\>.

# Appendix A: About this document

This document, titled “Worldwide AGPL Exception for Modifications for
the Purposes of Flood Control, Security, and CAPTCHA Software
Integration,” is published by the Modular Font Editor K Foundation Inc.,
a New Jersey Non-Profit Corporation. This is Version 1.0 of the document
and can be referred to in short as the “MFEK AGPL security exception
v1.0”. Programs licensed under the AGPL and which use this exception may
refer to themselves as “`AGPLv`$n$$+$`MFEK-Flood-Exception-v1.0`”
programs.

To use this Exception in your own programs, simply include a copy of the
Exception in your project’s source code and any documentation
accompanying your program. Be sure to replace \[Author’s Name\] and
\[Program’s Name\] with your name and the name of your program,
respectively.

For any inquiries or questions regarding this Exception, please contact:

- Fredrick R. Brennan  
  <fred@mfek.org>

The most recent version can be found at
<a href="mfek.org/AGPL-Flood-Exception"
class="uri">mfek.org/AGPL-Flood-Exception</a>.
